Hey, everyone, and welcome back.
So I want to talk about components now.
Components are very important to every design system, and one of the most important component that
we create are buttons.
Now, as you can tell over here.
I have two different types of buttons.
I typically have my button that is a zero based button and a button that is a fixed based button.
Now.
What does that mean?
Now a button that grows is a button that grows with the content within.
I'll show you what that looks like.
I'm going to create just an instance of that component.
And if I start typing in here.
Hello, this button grows.
You'll see that the button grows with the content.
If I remove these icons.
Now the button shrinks.
So that is a growing button.
A fixed button is exactly the opposite.
So let's take that component and bring it up over here.
Now, if I were to say this button is fixed, you'll see that.
It is indeed fixed, but I can stretch out this component and I can make it full width.
There are a couple of times where we will do this within our application, where we will have buttons
that span 100% width from left to right.
This is where you would use something like that.
Now you may be asking me, Daniel, what is base?
What is that?
Now I've created this thing called base.
Because when you create your initial component, it's not going to be like.
Like this.
It won't be, like, beautiful.
Like it won't have any styles.
There won't be variants of it.
You'll have to create a version where this is just your base version.
Everything else is based off of this.
If I modify this in any way.
Like say if I.
Expand it every other variant.
That is a grow variant on the left hand side here.
You'll see.
Will actually expand.
Or if I change the border radius like I just did.
So it's very important to create a base that you can base everything off of.
That's exactly what it is.
If I put a period in front of it, it will hide it from my component list.
But you do need a paid account.
So another thing is you do need a paid account for your design system if you want to use it across other
files.
Trust me, it is very much worth it.
If you are using a paid account like with your company, that works fine as well.
Like that's perfect to have like those libraries.
But if you're using it just for yourself and then you want to use a design system and use it for a project
or a bunch of different other files, you're going to need to have a paid account for that, and I'll
show you what that looks like in a second.
But this is what I have done.
I've created these different regular fixed and a regular grow button.
Now, the reason why I've named them regular is just because I think this is regular size.
If I want to create a variant which is smaller, I can create another base button or I can create another
component based off of this instance.
Totally up to you.
I don't use the smaller buttons enough for me to do that.
I may use them.
I may create another version.
So let's go into how I've gone ahead and actually taken these buttons and turn them into different variants.
So I have a primary, I have a secondary and tertiary.
So let's get right into it.
If I have a button here, you'll see this is my primary button.
But if I look within this structure, there's my regular grow and everything else.
Now, all I've done here is I'll show you exactly what I've done.
So I've taken this.
Button.
I'm going to just duplicate it right here.
And let's say I name this default.
The only problem with like real buttons is if you see this, this little container here, you're just
going to have to this frame, you're going to have to just bring it to the edge to properly size it.
So if I was going to create a default button like that where I can reuse within my application, I'm
going to do that.
I'm going to change colors.
So I'm going to use like my primary yellow.
Remember what I said about colors?
So if my UI is white, I want to change it to like a UI which is like a gray 80.
My text will be text gray as well.
And there you go.
I kind of have my button.
I can even go into other styles.
So I have some styles in here around different like shadows.
So I have a default shadow.
And there you go.
I have my primary button.
Looks exactly like that.
And all I would need to do is I'm not going to change this, this instance.
I'm actually going to create another frame around it.
So Option Command G and I have another frame and I'm going to rename this super cool.
But in and I'm going to just create that as a component option command K Or you can go into your toolbar.
So if I reverse that command Z so I have my ability to just go like that.
And that's a component.
Now if I go into my assets and I go into my buttons.
I will see my super cool button up there.
I mean, it's not in a nice folder.
You'll notice just how we have our bass buttons here.
We have our primary buttons, and that's based off of the frames they're in.
That's how I've separated them.
So that way I can easily access components, not necessarily based off of their naming convention,
but based off of the frames that they're located in.
And that's just the best practice I find for creating components separate them by frames so they're
easily accessible when you need to grab them.
So I have all my gro versions for primary buttons, all my like fixed versions for secondary and so
on.
And so this is my super cool component button that I can just reuse and reuse.
And in this instance, if I were to create.
Let's delete one of them.
If I were to create an active aversion, let's see what I've done here for active.
So all I've done basically is I've made the pass through 80%.
So that way it looks like it's when you're clicking it just like a nice hover state in a way, but it's
very much different from that first state.
So I'll just go ahead and I will set that to 80%.
There is a variance there.
And I can even go ahead and go right in there and set that to the active shadow, which is maybe just
a little bit later.
So it looks like it's a press down.
I press down button and let's go into our layers section and you'll see this is very much an instance.
You'll see that super cool button over here.
You'll see my other super cool button.
But over here, what I'm going to do is I'm actually going to detach this instance.
I'm not going to detach the base, just the initial instance.
So Option Command B and I'm going to rename it super cool button active.
Now this is very good and this is why I said about like your design system is not just for you.
Oftentimes designers aren't really designing to show like active states or disabled states or maybe
disabled states.
It really depends how in-depth you're going with your different user flows you're trying to show others.
But when we hand off something like this to developers, we're showing them all the different types
of variations of buttons they need to code.
So this is my active button.
And this will trigger when this is clicked.
So if I were to create a prototype.
This is what I would do.
So when I click on this.
We can do on most down.
We're in a swap.
Super cool but in active.
And that is not instant.
We're just going to smart animate it.
And what I'm going to do here is we can actually sorry dissolve that.
I don't think it's going to work because they're not the same name.
And what I'm going to do is over here on mouse up.
I'm actually going to go back.
And that's just going to dissolve.
Let's see what this prototype looks like.
So you'll see when I'm clicking at.
There is very much a change.
Now, I can even set this to like 50% if you want to see more change than anything.
I'm not clipping the content.
Okay.
Let's go back to our prototype.
And you'll see.
There is a change in that interaction and we're giving them a lot of feedback.
So don't just create the default button.
Let me delete that.
Don't just create the default button you need to create like the variations that go alongside them when
you're working on desktop.
That may be like hover states as well.
So I've gone ahead and done that.
I've created disabled buttons.
I've also created like a secondary button where it's just like a white background with a shadow.
And I've created those variations with active and disabled as well.
Same with the tertiary.
I don't have a disabled button because I'll never use a disabled button in this instance.
But I've done the exact same thing for fixed as well.
So when you're creating buttons, when you're creating components like that, you remember to think
about all the different types of use cases for that button.
I may even be missing something here, and I totally understand that.
And I understand that these things may change.
I may use different colors in the future.
I may use different typefaces, different icons, but I've made it so.
It's very much modular.
I have this icon now.
This is my instance and I want this to be like an add button.
Now I'm using it for the sole case of an ad button.
I'm going to not delete it.
It'll just hide it, which is perfect.
And for this button, I'm going to swap it out for another icon.
Do we have an ad icon in here?
Oh, there it is.
Plus.
And just like that, we've created our own component.
And I'm just going to shrink that down so that we have proper sizing.
And there you go.
You have your own component that you can use at any which way you like, and that is how I've built
out buttons for our design system.